# *The Monumental Archive Project*
  "data  created  through  commercial,  academic,  and  community avenues continues to be dominated by white historical narratives, often restricting the (perceived) usefulness of data and its relevance to contemporary research and understandings of the past" (Cook, 181)
  This is such a common issue in many of my art and architectural history courses. It was even relevent in last weeks reading where Katherine Cook again talked about issues in diversity. However, I don't believe there is a way to collect data without being selective of what you choose to make important vs what you think can be left out for two reasons. The first would be because any person who is collecting the data will have a specific background of knowledge and that will interfere in their perseption of what data to collect. The second is that if you were to gather all of the data possible, you would then be overloaded with so much info it would be impossible to organize it and decipher it. But that doesn't mean that the data we collect should take on the narrative often given by (mainly white) western cultures, so it is important to realize that we are limited in our knowledge and do our best to reach out to the appropriate resources (whether that be talking directly to people or reading primary/secondary sources) so that the data can be analyzed with the correct lens.
  
  "(style,  iconography,  font,  material)" (Cook, 182)
  A good range to approach this particular project. I wonder if I or any of the other students will be able to find any other data that could be important to the project? Maybe size of the monument? Or amount of detail in terms of added iconography? (if so I will add it here)
  
  "If monuments are too recent, there  are  concerns  with  the  copyright  of  stonemasons  and  the  personal information recorded on monuments. If the monuments are much older, there are concerns about the ethics of digitizing objects associated with the dead, when it would often be impossible to  seek  photo  permissions  and  data  sharing  consent  from  next  of kin." (Cook, 185)
  This ethical conundrum in this quote is something I would like to explore further and maybe even find an answer/solution to. Though I doubt that since there will always be someone to oppose me. (Nonetheless I will post it to the discord page and add any quotes I find interesting/hepful)
  
# *My Deilemma* The Ethics of this Assignment
  
  In my last paragraph I put in a quote that I feel highlights the ethical issue with this assignment. And that would be *"Is it ok to post this information?"*. I had posted the quote to the group chat in week two to see what others thought about this issue, and Dr. Graham mentioned an interesting point about a tombstone that was etched to have the face of the person on it. Would that then mean that this stone (in the future) shouldn't be used?
  
  To work my way around the issues of using a stone that is too recent or too old, I went to a site that is currently in the process of applying for heritage statues because of it's many important public figures. In a case like this, I personally believe that the ethical issues of posting something so personal is less of a sore spot since the site it a public space. But for all I know that could be wrong. :)

  My last note would be about safety. I was pretty good about bringing water, having a friend with me, and also having a snack in case I needed it. However, even with my precautions I managed to get stung by a wasp that got caught in my sweater. Though I am ok and thankfully now I know I'm not allergic, I had not planned for any issues like that and I honestly don't know what I would have done had I reacted badly to the sting, or if something else had come along and decided to bit me. So that was definitly a "remember this for next time" moment that I think should be discussed more. Obviously we can't plan for every since issue that may arise, but adding to the list is always a good thing. (I also saw that I was not the only one who experienced a bug problem based on the group chat. Hope evryone was safe!)
